Do you know what the result
of this Python code is?
Give it a shot.
Pause the video and leave a comment
with your answer.
Now, if you had any trouble
coming up with that answer,
you haven't seen this syntax before.
Make sure you watch this whole video
where I walk you through
all of the must know
Python list features.
Let's start by defining a list.
A list in Python is an ordered collection
of elements.
Now we can store
any elements that we want.
They don't have to be the same data type.
They can be different ones.
In this case, I have a list
that has five elements.
And these are simply strings.
But if I wanted to, I can mix and match
and I could put true in here.
I could put a number.
It matter.
The data types
do not need to be the same.
Now, lists are mutable,
meaning once they're created,
they can be changed.
And every position in the list
has something known as an index.
That means that I can actually access
and change
what exists at each position
in this list by knowing the index.
Now, when we start indexing,
let's just write this out here.
We index at zero, and then one,
and then two,
and then three, and then four.
So we go up by one every single time.
The first index is always zero,
and the last index is whatever
the length of the list is, minus one.
In this case,
we have five elements in our list.
When we subtract one, we get four.
That's the last index.
If we want to use the indexes,
we can do something like this list here.
Index zero.
If I decide to print this out,
that is going to access for me
the first element.
Let's have a look here.
I got to run this again.
And you see that we have a
now if I put index for
that will give us the last element
which is element E or string E Now
as well as accessing,
we can modify by the index.
So I said let's zero is equal to
some big number like this.
And then I go ahead and print list
and run my code.
You see that now
we've actually modified the list
and changed it
and replaced a with this large number.
Great.
That's the basics on indexing
now as well as indexing
from the beginning of the list.
We can index from the end of the list.
So check this out.
We actually have
negative five, negative four
if we can type this correctly.
Negative three,
negative two and negative
one as valid indexes
relative to the end of the list.
So to grab the last element,
we use negative one second
last element negative
two third last element, negative three,
so on and so forth.
So now if I were to print Ellis T
at negative five,
clear and run, you see that we get a
because that's the fifth last element
from the end of the list.
Now the reason negative
indexes can be useful
is because in other languages
where you typically have to write
if you wanted to access,
the last element in the list
is something like LCT
and then the length of the list.
This is how you get in Python
by the way, Len
And then you surround the object,
in this case LSD minus one.
So you can see
this is a little bit more verbose.
It's kind of more difficult to read.
So instead in Python,
we just do negative one.
And that always gives us
the last element in the list.
Now we'll get into a bunch
of other list features in a second.
But I want to quickly mention
I just released a massive software
development course.
The goal of this course
is that everyone that graduates
actually gets a job.
The way that we're supporting
that is
we actually have an employer portal
where once you graduate
and you go through our proctored
final exam
and all the projects that we have,
you'll show up in that employer database
and employers will actually pay us money
to interview you
because we've already vetted you.
You've gone
through an intense curriculum,
you know, everything
to be the best possible junior developer.
You can be in both front
end, back end and DevOps.
Now you can pick the specialization
you want to go into
and those specializations
are taught by industry experts
that are not myself.
So you have a frontend expert,
DevOps expert and back end expert
where I teach you
all the fundamental skills
so that you actually understand
what specialization you want to choose.
Anyways, you guys can check it out
from the link in the description.
Now let's get back into our lists.
now that we've looked at that, let's
see how we can actually add, remove
and insert elements from lists
if we want to add something to our list.
So actually a new element,
not replacing an existing element.
We can use the dot append method.
Now, if I append something like five,
this will simply
go to the end of the list.
So if I run my code here,
we should print out the
list so we can see it.
You will see that we get ABCD
and then five.
That's how you append.
Now what if you want to remove?
Well, if we want to remove from our list,
we can use this pop function.
Now, what this pop function does
is actually remove and return.
The element at the end of the list in
this case is going to be e.
So if I print out, remove and list
and I clear and run, you see we get EPE
and then the rest of the list,
except we no longer have E
because we popped it or removed it.
Now with the pop method,
we can actually specify the index
at which we want to remove.
So let's say we want to remove C,
I can put two here,
which is the index of C
and when I run this
now I get A, B, no C,
and then D and E and C
gets stored in this variable
because that's what Pop does.
Now let's say we don't actually know
the index of the element
we want to remove.
If that's the case,
we can remove the element
based on its value
by using the remove function.
So if I wanted to remove B,
I would do list, remove and not end.
This is B
and if I
clear and run, you see we get a c, d, e.
Now, an important thing
to keep in mind with this
method is
it removes
the first instance of that element.
So if I have two B's here,
you'll see that
we only remove the first B,
we don't remove the last one.
So you need to run this method
multiple times
if you want to remove
all of the different instances.
L So let's see what happens
if we try to remove an element
that doesn't exist.
I go here and run and notice
we get an error
because that element doesn't exist.
So you need to actually know
that the element exists
before you remove it.
I'll show you
how you can find that in a second.
All right.
So a few last methods
related to insertion
or kind of adding or modifying the list.
We have an insert method.
This insert method will insert an element
at whatever index you specify.
So let's say I do index two,
which is currently where C is,
and I insert some big number.
Well, now
when I run my code notice, I get a B
and then I index to this new element
and the rest of the elements
get shifted over
to the right in the list.
That's great.
Now, one other thing to show you here.
Let's see what happens
if I append another list.
So maybe I have a list
that has the elements. One, two.
Very clear in run here.
Notice that this actually gets added
as its own element.
So the last index is specifying
this list.
This is known as nesting lists.
We'll look at that in a second.
Sometimes, though,
you don't actually want this behavior.
You want to take both one and two
and you want to put them in the list
as individual elements.
If that's the case,
you can use this extend function.
Now, the extend
function will
take all of the elements
in the iterable object that you specify.
In this case, it's a list
and add them
as individual elements in the list.
So if I run this notice, we get ABCD
B and then one and two,
which are the elements
that existed inside of this list.
Now that we've discussed that,
I want to talk about something
known as mutability.
Now lists are mutable.
That means we can modify them
once they've been created.
Now, this is in contrast
to immutable objects like a tuple,
some python. We have tuples.
These are using regular parentheses.
And you'll notice
that if I go to my top
when I do something
like tuple at index zero is equal to 100
and I run my code,
we actually get an error.
It says tuple
object does not support item assignment.
That's because this is immutable.
Once I create it, I cannot modify it.
If I want to make a change to this,
I need to make a new tuple object
that has that change.
That's different than lists lists
We can actually modify in place,
and this gives them
some special behavior.
So now let's see what happens
if I do something like this.
LSD two is equal to LSD
and we'll say LSD two at index
zero is equal to 100
and then we'll print both are lists.
Now, you'll notice
when I clear and run here
that we actually get the exact same list,
even though we only made the change
to list two.
And the reason that happens
is because this is a mutable object.
Whenever you store mutable objects,
you're actually storing
a reference to them.
So when I say LSD is equal to this list,
I'm creating a new list
and referencing that list
that means when I have LSD two
is equal to LSD.
I'm actually just copying the reference
to this list into another variable.
So whenever I make a change to LSD,
it affects LSD.
Two Whenever I make a change to LSD, two,
it affects LSD
because these are referencing
the same underlying list.
So you need to keep that in mind
if you want to copy a list,
you actually need to do that
in a special way.
What we're doing
right here
is just creating
another reference
or something known as an alias
to the same list.
Now this becomes
especially important
when you start using lists
as function parameters.
So for example,
let's have a function defined func
I taken some LSD and I just say LSD
zero is equal to 100.
Well, now I can make I don't know, new
list here
is equal to 1 to 3
and I can actually call my function
on new LSD and then print my new LSD
and you'll see
that just like
before we actually modify
that list in place.
That's because, again,
when we pass this value
here to the parameter,
we're storing the reference to this list
so we can actually modify
a variable outside of the function
because it's mutable.
Very important to understand,
you need to know this
to be able to use lists effectively.
Okay.
So beyond that,
we have nesting of lists
and we saw this briefly before,
but we can store
lists inside of other lists.
So if I have LSD is equal to a list
like this,
I can actually store other lists
and I can use kind of a double
indexing method,
which you're going to see here
in a second.
So let's say I want to access
and we should really change this.
The value
for will to access the value for.
I first need to access the list
that stores four
so I can print
list at index one
and I'm going to access this second list
and you see that we get three four.
Now that I have that list,
I can index it again
and I can grab the second position
or the first index of that list,
and that will give me the value.
For now, this keeps going into infinity.
Like if I had another list here
right now, when I do one one,
you see that
I actually get the list for this
and I would have to access
index zero here
to be able to grab the actual value.
Four that's nesting.
Just quickly,
I wanted to show that to you.
Now that we've looked at nesting,
let's look at the most common issue
I see with Python lists.
And this is using lists
as default parameters.
So let's say again, I have my function
and I've LSD equal
to a default parameter of say, one two.
Now maybe what I'll do inside
of here is I will just say LSD
dot append
100 and I will return my list.
So this is a simple function.
All it does is it just takes some list.
It appends 100 to it
and then it returns that list.
But what it
has is a default value for its parameter.
That means I can call this function
with l passing in my own list
and it will use the list right here
which has the value. One two.
So we're going to say
LSD one is equal to funk and LSD two
is equal to funk and LSD three
is equal to funk.
We're just going to
print all of these out
and take a guess yourself
what you think the output is going to be.
I've kind of hinted
as to
what's going to happen,
but pause the video, take a guess,
and then I'm going to run the code.
Okay, So let's run our code here
and notice that our lists
continue to get larger and larger.
And in fact,
they're actually the same list.
This is a little bit weird.
What's happening?
Well,
what's going on here
is we have a default parameter,
which is a mutable list.
Now that means that when I make a change,
so I do list
append 100,
I'm actually
modifying this default parameter.
So every time I call function,
I'm appending 100 into this list
and all of list one, two and three
have the same list
that they're referencing
because I'm returning
a reference to this list,
which is a mutable object.
I know it seems a little bit
confusing here,
but the kind of moral of the story
is don't use a list
as a default parameter.
In fact,
don't use anything mutable
as a default parameter
unless you're going to be copying it.
And even then
you probably don't want to do that.
So just as a quick demo here,
if I pass in my own list
now, so I'm passing
three distinct lists here and I run,
you'll notice that we get
what we expect 100 in each list.
Okay?
Whereas if I do something like A
is equal to this, and then I pass a here,
okay, so a, a and a,
you'll notice
that we get the exact same list
three times again,
because we're appending to a
every single time,
because this is a mutable object.
Now that we've got into that,
let's talk about slicing,
which is one of my favorite
features of lists.
Now, a slice is essentially like a
for loop in Python,
but for iterating
or grabbing values out of a list.
So if I have my list like one, two,
three, four or five indices numbers
to keep it
nice and simple here,
I can actually create
a slice of this list so I can say print
Ellis team.
I can do my square bracket syntax
and now I have the ability
to use up to two colons.
Now bear with me here.
There's a few things
that you need to remember.
So first of all, I can use one colon.
Now when I use one colon right here,
what this actually does is create
a copy of the list
we're going to look at that
in one second, I promise.
Now, the first kind of thing
to the left of the colon.
So the left of the colon here,
when you don't put anything
there that indicates to start
right at the beginning of the list,
when you don't put anything
to the right of the colon,
that indicates
to go to the end of the list,
including the last element.
So if I just print out the list here
with one colon,
this is actually valid syntax.
And you see
we just get the exact same list.
Now though,
if I do something like one colon,
what I'm actually specifying is
I want to start at index one
and I want to go to the end of the list,
including the last value when I run it.
Now notice
I get from two to the end of the list.
Now let's do one colon
and then index six.
What I'm doing now is specifying
I want to start it index one
and I want to go up to
but not include index six.
Now index six is seven.
So that means I'm going to have a list
which is 2 to 6,
and that's exactly what I get.
Okay,
so you have your start colon
and then your stop.
If you leave them empty,
the start is going to be
the beginning of the list
and the end is going
to be the end of the list,
and it's going to include that
last value.
Now, where things get a bit
more complicated
is when we have two colons
and when we have two colons,
we actually go start stop step.
So I can do something like one six here
and if I leave the step empty by default,
I'm going to have a step of one.
So we get the exact same list.
But if I put a two here,
I'm actually specifying
that I want to step over
every second element.
So now when I run my code,
I get two, four, six,
so I skip every second element.
This is similar to a for loop
where you set
I equal to some value,
you go up to some value
and then you increment by some step.
In this case,
the step we're using is two.
Now slices can get pretty complicated
and you can actually use
negative values in slices.
So let's say I have a colon
and then I do negative one.
Well, what do you think
we're going to get here?
Let's run this
and notice
that we actually get the entire list
minus the last element,
because we go up to everything
but the last element.
Whereas if I put a negative
one here as my start,
you'll see that
we just get the last element
in this list of the slice.
Now one little trick you can use is
you can actually step negative.
So I can do colon, colon negative one.
Now, this is actually a very fast way
to reverse a list in Python.
When I do this,
you actually see that
we get the entire list reversed.
Okay, We're starting at the beginning,
going to the end,
but stepping negative ones
or stepping backwards,
which kind of goes circularly.
I won't really explain
this much more in depth,
but negative or colon.
Colon negative
one will reverse the list for you. Okay.
You can do all kinds of
interesting things here with a slice.
Now, just as a last example here
with our slice,
we can actually modify
segments of a slice.
So let's say
I do something like two colon for
I can actually make this equal to a list
with just one element inside
when I run my code.
Now, if I print out
LCT you'll see that
what I've done here is of inserted
one in position of the slice from 2 to 4.
Now to make this more clear,
we can do like a thousand.
A thousand
and you'll see that
I've essentially replaced
what happens in this slice
with whatever I put here.
So now we're going to go through
some of the more useful methods
that you can use on lists.
First of all, I want to show you
how you can determine
if something is inside of a list
to do that
we can say contains is equal to
and then something like two in Ellis T
Now this in operator simply tells us
if whatever the value is on the left hand
side is contained inside of the iterable.
In this case, it's a list.
So if I print contains,
you can see that we
get true, indicating
the two does indeed exist.
Now let's say that you don't know
what elements are inside of the list
and you first want to check
if something existence of the list
I found to it exists.
Maybe now what I want
is the index of value
to well, what I can do
now is actually grab the index.
By using the index method,
I can say team dot index and then two
and now I can bring contains and index
and it will tell me
the index of element two, which is one.
Now a few other useful methods we can use
are the count method.
So for example,
I can go here and say
print LSD accounts and I can count three
and if I clear and run,
you see that
it tells me
we have two instances of three
inside of the list now as well as those.
We can also sort our list
so I can say LSD don't sort.
Now what this is going to do
is perform an in place sort.
That means it's actually going
to modify the list, change
all of the elements
to be in the correct position.
So this is kind of interesting.
If I print out list dot sort,
you'll actually see that we get none.
The reason we get none
is because this method
doesn't return anything.
It actually just source the list for us.
So if I do another print statement here
and now I print LSD.
Okay, you can see that.
Now we get the list in ascending order.
Now we can also specify if we want to
in descending order,
I believe we can say
descend is equal to true.
I think that's the correct.
no, sorry. It's reverse equals true
vertical.
True.
If we do that now, it's
going to sort it in descending order.
So we get from eight
all the way down to one.
So that is sorting
now as well as sorting.
We can actually reverse a list.
So same thing
here, I can say list dot reverse.
Now again,
this is going to happen in place,
so notice it returns none
and it reverses the list for us now
as well as those sorts
and reverse methods.
We also have functions
that will do this that actually return
new objects to us.
So what I can do
is actually wrap my list here in sorted
and now if I prints out sorted
and then I print my list like this,
you'll notice
it actually doesn't modify
my original list.
It returns a new list,
which is the sorted version of this list.
So very interesting to see that
now as well as sorted, we have reversed
same thing.
It will return a new instance
that is not modified the list in place.
Now this is giving us
something known as an iterator.
If we wanted to convert this
to an actual list,
we would just wrap this in the list.
Not going to dive into that too much.
Okay.
Beyond that, I did promise you
I was going to show you
how to make a copy of a list,
a few ways to do this,
but the most common
is to use the slice operation.
So I can say list two is equal to LST
and then simply do a single colon.
Now, if I do list
at zero is equal to a big number,
and then I print my list and my list to,
you'll see that
these are now different lists
because we made a copy
of the original list.
So notice we've only modified lists.
Two, we did not modify list one
because we made a copy here
using this slice. Operator.
All right,
So one more cool thing to show
you here is something
known as the zip function.
Let's say
we have two lists here, names and ages,
and they actually have
corresponding indices, right?
So the ages at Index zero
correspond with a name at index zero.
Well, we can actually use a function
called zip.
So I can zip these together.
I'll just say zipped
if I can fix my cap locks here.
What is going on?
Caps zipped is equal to zip,
and then I can pass my names and my ages
and it'll actually create tuples
for us of all of the matching indices.
So if I go ahead and print
the list of my zipped
and I go here and run this,
you see that we actually get tuples
with the correspond indices.
You can do this
with as many different lists as you want.
So we can zip three, four
or five 100 lists.
And the reason why I put a list here
is because this actually returns
an iterator for us.
An iterator
is something that we can loop over,
but if we want to get all of the values
in just a human readable form,
we do have to convert it to a list.
So now that we've looked at zip
last really cool thing to show
you here is list comprehension.
So you've probably seen this before,
but this is one of the coolest parts
of Python.
Well, what I can do is write a list
and I can actually populate the list
by using something
known as a comprehension.
So I can do something like X for X
in range ten.
Now, if I go here and print out my list,
you will see that when I run this
I get zero through nine.
Now I can even make this a bit cooler.
I can say x for x in range ten.
If x mod two is equal to zero.
Now this is just going to give me
all the even numbers, including zero.
I could go much further
into how to do this.
You can also have list
comprehension of list comprehension.
So I can actually just
make this like that
and this isn't going to be that useful.
Let's take this.
So X for x there
for underscore in range five.
Now it's a bit difficult to read this.
Let's zoom out a little bit
what this is going to do for us
is give us a list of even numbers
five times.
So now when I run this, you can see
we get a nested list comprehension.
The syntax is like a half here.
You kind of can pause and parse it
and see exactly how it works.
But I don't want to make the video too
long here and continue
going on about this anyway.
It's really cool.
You can do list comprehension
and you can write all kinds
of wild syntax in Python.
If you want to learn more,
you should subscribe to my channel
because I have a lot more python content.
And it was. I'm going to wrap it up here.
You guys enjoyed Leave it like subscribe
and I'll see you in the next one.